add data analysis tutorial + deepagents section in learn tab (#2501)
langchain-ai/docs: src/oss/deepagents/data-analysis.mdx

# ExecuteResponse(exit_code=0, result='ready', ...)
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Local shell">
<Warning>
This backend provides unrestricted filesystem and shell access. Use only in controlled environments for development and testing. See the [security considerations](https://reference.langchain.com/python/deepagents/backends/filesystem/) for more details.
</Warning>

```python
from deepagents.backends import LocalShellBackend

backend = LocalShellBackend(root_dir=".", env={"PATH": "/usr/bin:/bin"})
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Upload sample data

Create and upload sample sales data to the backend:
```python
import csv
import io

# Create sample sales data
data = [
    ["Date", "Product", "Units Sold", "Revenue"],
    ["2025-08-01", "Widget A", 10, 250],
    ["2025-08-02", "Widget B", 5, 125],
    ["2025-08-03", "Widget A", 7, 175],
    ["2025-08-04", "Widget C", 3, 90],
    ["2025-08-05", "Widget B", 8, 200],
]

# Convert to CSV bytes
text_buf = io.StringIO()
writer = csv.writer(text_buf)
writer.writerows(data)
csv_bytes = text_buf.getvalue().encode("utf-8")
text_buf.close()

# Upload to backend
backend.upload_files([("./data/sales_data.csv", csv_bytes)])
```

## Implement custom tools

> Data analysis tasks might produce artifacts, like reports or plots. We can ask our agent to list the relevant file paths for these artifacts and download them with `backend.download_files`. Alternatively, we can equip the agent with a tool that allows it to send its work products to interested parties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send the results to slack, we implement a custom tool.
This tool can also take artefacts that the analysis produces into account, like reports or plots.
In the prompt for the tool, we include the instructions to list the relevant file paths for these artifacts and download them with `backend.download_files`. 
```

Author: > In the prompt for the tool, we include the instructions to list the relevant file paths for these artifacts and download them with `backend.download_files`. 

This doesn't appear true at the moment. I was suggesting that we *can* ask the agent to list the file paths and download directly, in case readers don't want to go to the trouble of setting up a Slack bot, but it is easier to give it a tool that lets it ship them to us.

:::python
```bash pip
pip install daytona slack-sdk
```
:::

<Note>
Both services are optional. You can use the local shell backend (with important [security considerations](/oss/deepagents/backends#local-shell)) or download artifacts directly from the backend.
</Note>

### LangSmith

Many of the applications you build with LangChain will contain multiple steps with multiple invocations of LLM calls. As these applications get more complex, it becomes crucial to be able to inspect what exactly is going on inside your chain or agent. The best way to do this is with [LangSmith](https://smith.langchain.com).

After you sign up at the link above, make sure to set your environment variables to start logging traces:

```shell
export LANGSMITH_TRACING="true"
export LANGSMITH_API_KEY="..."
```

:::python
Or, set them in Python:

```python
import getpass
import os

os.environ["LANGSMITH_TRACING"] = "true"
os.environ["LANGSMITH_API_KEY"] = getpass.getpass()
```
:::

## Set up the backend

Deep Agents use [backends](/oss/deepagents/backends) to execute code in sandboxed environments.

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Daytona Sandbox">

> First, we implement a simple backend around the Daytona sandbox. This just requires an implementation of the `execute` method. We will also implement convenience methods for uploading and downloading files:

Author: yes, released today, going to update
